Europe is a continent located entirely in the Northern Hemisphere and mostly in the Eastern Hemisphere. 
It comprises the westernmost part of Eurasia and is bordered by the Arctic Ocean to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the west, the Mediterranean Sea to the south, and Asia to the east. 
Europe is commonly considered to be separated from Asia by the watershed of the Ural Mountains, the Ural River, the Caspian Sea, the Greater Caucasus, the Black Sea, and the waterways of the Turkish Straits. 
Although some of this border is over land, Europe is generally accorded the status of a full continent because of its great physical size and the weight of history and tradition.
Europe covers about 10,180,000 square kilometres (3,930,000 sq mi), or 2% of the Earth's surface (6.8% of land area), making it the second smallest continent. 
Politically, Europe is divided into about fifty sovereign states, of which Russia is the largest and most populous, spanning 39% of the continent and comprising 15% of its population. 
Europe had a total population of about 741 million (about 11% of the world population) as of 2018. 
The European climate is largely affected by warm Atlantic currents that temper winters and summers on much of the continent, even at latitudes along which the climate in Asia and North America is severe. 
Further from the sea, seasonal differences are more noticeable than close to the coast.
European culture is the root of Western civilization, which traces its lineage back to ancient Greece and ancient Rome. 
The fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD and the subsequent Migration Period marked the end of Europe's ancient history and the beginning of the Middle Ages.
A saxophone is a type of musical instrument in the woodwind family. 
The saxophone uses a piece of wood, called a reed, to make sound. 
The player blows air into the mouthpiece, which vibrates the reed. 
The saxophone also uses keys to change pitch, and the player closes or opens holes to choose the note. 
Commonly, saxophones have about 22 keys.
The saxophone is most commonly found in four voices: soprano, alto, tenor, and baritone saxophones. 
However, uncommon saxophones include the bass and contrabass saxophones (lower than a baritone saxophone), the C-melody saxophone (between the tenor and alto saxophones), and the sopranino saxophone (higher than a soprano saxophone).
It was invented in 1840 by Adolphe Sax and is used in classical, jazz, and occasionally in rock, pop, and other styles. 
The saxophone was originally created for military bands, but was commonly used in jazz big bands in the 1940s and 1950s. 
Famous saxophone players include Marcel Mule (classical music), John Coltrane (jazz music), and Charlie Parker (jazz music).
